[Music]
welcome to slash forward in this episode
we're gonna dose up with some
psychedelics and take a trip through
infinity with Ken Russell's 1980s psycho
thriller altered states let's get to it
we open on a man in a tank depriving
himself of sensations possibly altering
his state this is our main character
professor Eddie Jessup and he's being
monitored by his peer Arthur also known
as the dial master in familiar circles
through voiceover narration we learned
that after some positive feedback from
test subjects the professor decided to
try it out himself to verify the results
he returns from the upside down and
confirms he had achieved sustained
hallucinations and it's enthusiastic
about continued testing at a soiree that
evening they're discussing his
experiments when he enters Arthur's room
eight both be holds his message in
blushes as do we all
through an expositional relationship we
learned that he's exploring the roots of
schizophrenia and religious experience
the chamber allows him to mess around
with human subjects in a non-invasive
way then they bone down until this
architectural pattern reminds him of
something Jesus crucifixion so no
orgasms or no okay he reveals that he's
driven by the death of his father whose
end of life experience led Jessup to
believe that life suffering is met only
by the continued suffering of death it's
all just a non-stop cycle of suffering
so does that do it for you we then get a
hallucination scene representing a
normal day at the office and then we
find out that Emily's gotten a job at
Harvard just like Eddie and they've been
dating for two months so she naturally
suggests they get married understanding
that he's a bit of a nutter with limited
prospects he says why not we then cut to
a friendly reunion with Arthur seven
years later we learned through gossip
that emily is taking the kids to Africa
for a year while Eddie explores a new
psychedelic he learned about down south
he's grown uncomfortable with this
senseless banality of everyday life so
this will act as a trial separation
before they presumably get a divorce
he and his guide find the tribe that
ritualized us the particular mushroom
they're interested in and they agree to
let him join so long as he searches his
evolutionary memory until he finds
himself at a crack through which he will
embrace eternity hey there it is that's
just the cave they're walking to when
he's invited to the circle he finds that
they're really just kind of winging it
with the recipes since gringo blood was
just a happy accident he composes
himself puts a bandage on his hand
grabs the penis cord and starts slurping
he immediately starts his trip down
memory lane
fireworks lizards laughing the
elimination of the self and the sands of
infinite time you know it's profound
stuff
Eddie's upset when he wakes to find that
they claim he's smooshed a lizard while
tripping because he figures the locals
are just goofing on him so he sends some
of the mixture back for analysis and
rushes off the experiments continue at
home and he expresses a desire to fix up
a new deprivation tank they found
thinking it will enhance his experiences
and allow him to push through in his
first session he stalks them through
what he's witnessing he finds himself
among a group of proto humans and he
transitions from watching to
participating as they consume a goat
when he starts vocalizing like an early
primate they remove him only to discover
some complications he still can't talk
but writes down orders for a blood draw
and an x-ray of his throat Mayson their
windbag friend insists on a professional
opinion for reasons related to his many
credentials which he apparently enjoys
yelling at people as he departs but even
his radiologist confirms later in bed we
see that Eddie has some continued
transient regression no really he's got
it all over but the sensation eventually
passes cut to three months later and
he's picking his family up from the
airport sure he's happy they're back but
he's really mostly interested in Emily's
monkey research he wants to verify if
she has any recordings of baboon
vocalizations to compare his evidence
against we find out he's been wanting to
repeat the experiment but his partners
are far too concerned with his safety to
allow him to continue the cowards he's
desperate to prove that consciousness is
as real and tangible as any other part
of our universe and can be externalized
he decides to go rogue that evening with
a solo session he gets much further this
time and when a janitor goes to check on
a noise he gets Donkey Kong to the face
the janitor solicits help from the
security guard who calls it in as an
escaped animal he then receives a
primordial beatdown before monkey man
takes it to the streets
jumping nimbly and portraying the stage
actors version of being a monkey hi John
monkey jump glide points he ends up at
the zoo where he brings a rock to a
Rhino fight and then traipse his around
until he finds a goat to eat the
security guards are really earning their
paychecks tonight as this one has to
deal with finding a new demand near the
carrion he's bailed out and brought home
where he seems bemused by everyone
else's experience of the evening later
Emily listens to the tapes from the
first session and hears the
grunts of an early primate which compels
her to join them in one last experiment
to find the truth this one however
doesn't go quite the same Eddie goes way
back and everyone's overcome by infinity
the tank turns into a swirling quantum
smoke hole she looks into it and finds
him right behind the red blood cells and
next to the pulsing microbes she manages
to pull him back from the brink
he comes out damp but otherwise
unscathed Mason fireman carries him home
then looks him over with his doctor's
bag emily falls apart realizing she'll
never be free of her obsession with him
reminding us that this had been a love
story at one point and the fellows leave
while arguing about what it all means
that evening and he wakes up and shows
us for about the fifth time this movie
how good he is at covering his nards
with his foot the next morning we learn
he has arrived at the final truth and
found it empty he's ready now to commit
to his family but maybe not to the
degree that it may require him to move
back in it's all about baby steps in the
end he has another regression which he
transfers to Emily somehow he manages to
beat it out of himself and then returns
the heart of defeat II restoring Emily
to her former average self having now
pulled each other back from the edge of
an endless empty abyss they're ready to
face the exciting life that they have
ahead of them as part time energy beings
and that was altered states this was
William Hertz first movie you can tell
he really went for it
this one is more strange than scary but
it's worth checking out if you enjoyed
the video I'd love for you to become
part of the channel by subscribing and
thanks for watching